A guide to overloading (#3951)
numba/numba: docs/source/extending/overloading-guide.rst

You know that only integer and real numbers will be involved. (While this may
sound like an artificial example, especially because a Numba implementation of
``numpy.linalg.norm`` exists, it is largely pedagogical and serves to
illustrate how and when to use ``@overload``).

.. |scipy.linalg.norm| replace:: ``scipy.linalg.norm``
.. _scipy.linalg.norm: https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/generated/scipy.linalg.norm.html

The skeleton might look something like this::

    def algorithm():
        # setup
        v = ...
        while True:
            # take a step
            d = scipy.linalg.norm(v)
            if d < tolerance:
                break

Now, let's further assume, that you have heard of Numba and you now wish to use
it to accelerate your function. However, after adding the
``jit(nopython=True)``
decorator, Numba complains that ``scipy.linalg.norm`` isn't supported. From
looking at the documentation, you realize that a norm is probably fairly easy
to implement using NumPy and you wanted to learn a little about the inner
workings of Numba anyway. So, after some back and forth with the
core-developers via Gitter you receive the following annotated template in your

> INBOX:

Author: Yes, this is a good suggestion. We don't want to be in the business of emailing templates.

.. literalinclude:: template.py

After some deliberation and tinkering, you end up with the following code:

.. literalinclude:: mynorm.py

As you can see, the implementation only supports what you need right now:

> * Only supports 

Reviewer: does this sentence have an end? if not perhaps remove it?!

Author: It should be part of the next bullet.

``jit_norm`` will be called with the currently encountered types and will then
return either ``_oneD_norm_x`` in the vector case and ``_two_D_norm_2``.

You can download the example code here: :download:`mynorm.py </extending/mynorm.py>`

Implementing ``@overload`` for NumPy functions
==============================================

Numba supports NumPy through the provision of ``@jit`` compatible
re-implementations of NumPy functions. In such cases ``@overload`` is a very
convenient option for writing such implementations, however there are a few
additional things to watch out for.

* The Numba implementation should match the NumPy implementation as closely as
  feasible with respect to accepted types, arguments, raised exceptions and
  algorithmic complexity (Big-O / Landau order).

* When implementing supported argument types, bear in mind that, due to
  duck typing, NumPy does tend to accept a multitude of argument types beyond
  NumPy arrays such as scalar, list, tuple, set, iterator, generator etc.
  You will need to account for that during type inference and subsequently as
  part of the tests.

* A NumPy function may return a scalar, array or a data structure

>   which matches one of its inputs, you need to watch be aware of type

Reviewer: `you need to watch be aware of type` <- needs fixing.

Author: yes

  unification problems and dispatch to appropriate implementations. For
  example, |np.corrcoef|_ may return an array or a scalar depending on its
  inputs.

.. |np.corrcoef| replace:: ``np.corrcoef``
.. _np.corrcoef: https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/reference/generated/numpy.corrcoef.html

* If you are implementing a new function, you should always update the
  `documentation
  <http://numba.pydata.org/numba-doc/latest/reference/numpysupported.html>`_.
  The sources can be found in ``docs/source/reference/numpysupported.rst``. Be
  sure to mention any limitations that your implementation has, e.g. no support
  for the ``axis`` keyword.

* When writing tests for the functionality itself, it's useful to include

>   handling of non-finite values; arrays with different shapes and layouts;

Reviewer: as this is a list `s/;/,/g` ?

Author: Yup.

  complex inputs; scalar inputs; inputs with types for which support is not
  documented (e.g. a function which the NumPy docs say requires a float or int
  input might also 'work' if given a bool or complex input).

* When writing tests for exceptions, for example if adding tests to
  ``numba/tests/test_np_functions.py``, you may encounter the following error
  message:

  .. code::

        ======================================================================
        FAIL: test_foo (numba.tests.test_np_functions.TestNPFunctions)
        ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Traceback (most recent call last):
        File "<path>/numba/numba/tests/support.py", line 645, in tearDown
            self.memory_leak_teardown()
        File "<path>/numba/numba/tests/support.py", line 619, in memory_leak_teardown
            self.assert_no_memory_leak()
        File "<path>/numba/numba/tests/support.py", line 628, in assert_no_memory_leak
            self.assertEqual(total_alloc, total_free)
        AssertionError: 36 != 35

>   This occurs because raising exceptions from jitted code leads to reference leaks. Ideally, you will

Reviewer: long line

  place all exception testing in a separate test method and then add a call in each test to
  ``self.disable_leak_check()`` to disable the leak-check (inherit
  from ``numba.tests.support.TestCase`` to make that available).

* For many of the functions that are available in NumPy, there are
  corresponding methods defined on the NumPy ``ndarray`` type. For example, the

>   function ``repeat`` is available as a NumPy module level function and a member function on the ``ndarray`` class.

Reviewer: long line

  .. code:: python

        import numpy as np
        a = np.arange(10)
        # function
        np.repeat(a, 10)
        # method
        a.repeat(10)

  Once you have written the function implementation, you can easily use
  ``@overload_method`` and reuse it. Just be sure to check that NumPy doesn't
  diverge in the implementations of its function/method.

>   For example for the ``repeat`` function/method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  As an example, the ``repeat`` function/method:
```

  .. code:: python

        @extending.overload_method(types.Array, 'repeat')
        def array_repeat(a, repeats):
            def array_repeat_impl(a, repeat):
                # np.repeat has already been overloaded
                return np.repeat(a, repeat)

            return array_repeat_impl

* If you need to create ancillary functions, for example to re-use a small
  utility function or to split your implementation across functions for the
  sake of readability, you can make use of the ``@register_jitable`` decorator.
  This will make those functions available from within your ``@jit`` and
  ``@overload`` decorated functions.

> * The Numba continuous integration (CI) setup  tests a wide variety of NumPy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Numba continuous integration (CI) set up tests a wide variety of NumPy
```

tests cases for Numba, you should always use ``numba.tests.support.TestCase``.

.. literalinclude:: test_myjitmodule2.py

While it is a pretty decent test, it wouldn't be accepted into Numba.
There are a few more test-cases that should be implemented:

* Empty array
* Single value array
* Multidimensional arrays
* Tests for ``int32`` and ``float32`` types

You can download the example code from above including tests here:

* :download:`mymodule.py </extending/mymodule.py>`
* :download:`myjitmodule.py </extending/myjitmodule.py>`
* :download:`myjitmodule2.py </extending/myjitmodule2.py>`
* :download:`test_myjitmodule2.py </extending/test_myjitmodule2.py>`

Implementing ``@overload`` for NumPy functions
==============================================

Numba supports NumPy through the provision of ``@jit`` compatible
re-implementations of NumPy functions. In such cases ``@overload`` is a very
convenient option for writing such implementations, however there are a few
additional things to watch out for.

* The Numba implementation should match the NumPy implementation as closely as
  feasible with respect to accepted types, arguments, raised exceptions and

>   runtime (Big-O / Landau order).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  algorithmic complexity (Big-O / Landau order).
```

> * When implementing supported argument types, bear in mind that---thanks to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When implementing supported argument types, bear in mind that, due to
```

>   duck typing---NumPy does tend to accept a multitude of argument types beyond

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  duck typing, NumPy does tend to accept a multitude of argument types beyond
```

>   NumPy arrays such as scalar, list, tuple, set, iterator, generator etc.. So

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  NumPy arrays such as scalar, list, tuple, set, iterator, generator etc.
```

>   you will need to account for that during type inference and subsequently as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You will need to account for that during type inference and subsequently as
```

  part of the tests.

* A NumPy function may return a scalar, array or a data structure

>   which matches one of its inputs - so you need to watch out for type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  which matches one of its inputs, you need to watch be aware of type
```

  unification problems and dispatch to appropriate implementations. For

>   example, ``np.corrcoef`` may return an array or a scalar depending on it's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  example, ``np.corrcoef`` may return an array or a scalar depending on its
```

  inputs.

* If you are implementing a new function, you should always update the
  `documentation
  <http://numba.pydata.org/numba-doc/latest/reference/numpysupported.html>`_.

>   The sources can be found in `docs/source/reference/numpysupported.rst``. Be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The sources can be found in ``docs/source/reference/numpysupported.rst``. Be
```

  input might also 'work' if given a bool or complex input).

* When writing tests for exceptions, for example if adding tests to
  ``numba/tests/test_np_functions.py``, you may encounter the following error
  message:

  .. code::

        ======================================================================
        FAIL: test_foo (numba.tests.test_np_functions.TestNPFunctions)
        ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Traceback (most recent call last):
        File "/Users/vhaenel/git/numba/numba/tests/support.py", line 645, in tearDown
            self.memory_leak_teardown()
        File "/Users/vhaenel/git/numba/numba/tests/support.py", line 619, in memory_leak_teardown
            self.assert_no_memory_leak()
        File "/Users/vhaenel/git/numba/numba/tests/support.py", line 628, in assert_no_memory_leak
            self.assertEqual(total_alloc, total_free)
        AssertionError: 36 != 35

  This occurs because raising exceptions from jitted code leads to reference leaks. Ideally, you will
  place all exception testing in a separate test method and then add a call in each test to

>   ``self.disable_leak_check()`` to disable the leak-check. (Remember to inherit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ``self.disable_leak_check()`` to disable the leak-check (inherit
```

  from ``numba.tests.support.TestCase`` to make that available).

* For many of the functions that are available in NumPy, there are

>   corresponding methods defined on the NumPy array type. For example, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  corresponding methods defined on the NumPy ``ndarray`` type. For example, the
```

>   function ``repeat`` is available in two flavours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  function ``repeat`` is available as a NumPy module level function and a member function on the ``ndarray`` class.
```

  .. code:: python

        import numpy as np
        a = np.arange(10)
        # function
        np.repeat(a, 10)
        # method
        a.repeat(10)

  Once you have written the function implementation, you can easily use
  ``@overload_method`` and reuse it. Just be sure to check that NumPy doesn't
  diverge in the implementations of its function/method.

  For example for the ``repeat`` function/method:

  .. code:: python

        @extending.overload_method(types.Array, 'repeat')
        def array_repeat(a, repeats):
            def array_repeat_impl(a, repeat):
                # np.repeat has already been overloaded
                return np.repeat(a, repeat)

            return array_repeat_impl

* If you need to create ancillary functions, for example to re-use a small
  utility function or to split your implementation across functions for the
  sake of readability, you can make use of the ``@register_jitable`` decorator.
  This will make those functions available from within your ``@jit`` and
  ``@overload`` decorated functions.

* The Numba continuous integration (CI) setup  tests a wide variety of NumPy

>   versions---you'll sometimes be alerted to a change in behaviour back in some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  versions, you'll sometimes be alerted to a change in behaviour from some
```

  previous NumPy version. If you can find supporting evidence in the NumPy

>   change log / repo, then you'll need to decide whether to branch logic and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  change log / repository, then you'll need to decide whether to create branches and
```

  attempt to replicate the logic across versions, or use a version gate (with

>   associated wording in the docs) to advertise that Numba replicates NumPy from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  associated wording in the documentation) to advertise that Numba replicates NumPy from
```

  some particular version onwards.

* You can look at the Numba source code for inspiration, many of the overloaded
  NumPy functions and methods are in ``numba/targets/arrayobj.py``. Below, you

>   will find a list of implementations to look at, that are well implemented in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  will find a list of implementations to look at that are well implemented in
```

    File myjitmodule.py", line 25:
    def myalgorithm(a, x):
        # algorithm code
        mymodule.set_to_x(a, x)
        # algorithm code

Providing multiple implementations and dispatching based on types
=================================================================

As you saw above, the overload implementation for  ``set_to_x`` function
doesn't accept floating point arguments. Let's extended the specification of
the function as follows:

* The numerical type of the array ``arr`` must match the numerical type of the
  scalar ``x`` argument, i.e. if ``arr`` is of type ``int64``, then ``x`` must
  be of this type too.
* Only integer and floating-point types are to be supported
* For the floating-point type, no ``nan`` values are allowed in ``arr`` and if
  such a value is encountered, an appropriate ``ValueError`` should be raised.
* If a tuple is used instead of an array, a custom error message with a hint
  for the user should be issued.

The resulting implementation could look as follows:

.. literalinclude:: myjitmodule2.py

As you can see, the typing checking code has been increased significantly to

> match the new requirements. Also, multiple implementations---one for integers

Reviewer 2: The last line in this snippet might look surprising to folk who are starting out.

```python
    if isinstance(arr, types.Array):
        # validate that arr and x have the same type
        if arr.dtype == x:
```

Author: Do you think it would suffice to expand the comment a little along the lines of:

```
(The arr argument is an array and the type of the vlaues is stored as the 'dtype' attribute. The x argument on the other hand is a scalar and thus x is already the type here.)
```

The key is, there are quasi two parts to such implementations: the type inference stage and the actual implementation stage. And, the two stages are hidden in decorator/closure implementation. I.e. you do the type checking in the function itself and then return another function with the concrete implementation. The (Python) types of the arguments are different in both cases, in the first they are the Numba types and in the second the real arguments. I am not yet sure how to drive this point home. Maybe take a step back and explain or link to the concept of decorators and closures? What do you think?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I think the expanded comment is perfect here.  Personally, I would keep it at that.

Author: Thanks!

which implementation should be used and also raise any custom error messages
required. Importantly, the check for ``nan`` values is only present in the
floating point implementation as this additional check creates a runtime
overhead. This can easily be observed during profiling:

.. code:: pycon

    In [1]: a = np.arange(100, dtype=np.float64)

    In [2]: %timeit myalgorithm(a, 1.0)
    473 ns ± 11.9 ns per loop (mean ± std. dev. of 7 runs, 1000000 loops each)

    In [3]: a = np.arange(100)

    In [4]: %timeit myalgorithm(a, 1)
    237 ns ± 4.59 ns per loop (mean ± std. dev. of 7 runs, 1000000 loops each)

Writing Tests
=============

The following is a sufficient piece of test code for the overloaded
``set_to_x`` implementation. As you can see, only a small part of the test-code
is about testing if the function works correctly. Most of the test code in this
example checks that all error cases are handled and that all raised exceptions
are of the correct type and have the correct error message. When implementing
tests cases for Numba, you should always use ``numba.tests.support.TestCase``.

.. literalinclude:: test_myjitmodule2.py

> While is is a pretty descent test, it wouldn't be accepted into the Numba.

Author: "The Numba" haha.

You can download the example code from above including tests here:

* :download:`mymodule.py </extending/mymodule.py>`
* :download:`myjitmodule.py </extending/myjitmodule.py>`
* :download:`myjitmodule2.py </extending/myjitmodule2.py>`
* :download:`test_myjitmodule2.py </extending/test_myjitmodule2.py>`

Implementing ``overload`` for Numpy functions
=============================================

Numba has strong support for NumPy because it provides ``jit`` compatible
re-implementations of NumPy functions. In such cases ``overload`` is a very
convenient option, however there are a few additional things to watch out for.

* The  Numba implementation should match the NumPy implementation as closely as
  feasible with respect to accepted types, arguments, raised exceptions and
  runtime (Big-O / Landau order).

* If you are implementing a new function, you should always update the
  `documentation
  <http://numba.pydata.org/numba-doc/latest/reference/numpysupported.html>`_.
  The sources can be found in `docs/source/reference/numpysupported.rst``. Be
  sure to mention any limitations that your implementation has, e.g. no support
  for the ``axis`` keyword.

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a bullet point along the lines that numpy accepts many types of input, generally (scalar, list, tuple, array, generator, tuple of lists etc) which you need to bear in mind in testing and implementation.

Further: a numpy function may return a scalar, array or a data structure which matches one of its inputs - so need to watch out for type unification problems and dispatch to appropriate implementations.

CI tests a wide variety of numpy versions - you'll sometimes be alerted to a change in behaviour back in some previous numpy version.  If you can find supporting evidence in the numpy change log / repo, then you'll need to decide whether to branch logic and attempt to replicate the logic across versions, or use a version gate (with associated wording in the docs) to advertise that numba replicates numpy from v1.11 onwards, for example. 

When writing tests, it's useful to include handling of non-finite values; arrays with different shapes and layouts; complex inputs; scalar inputs; inputs with types for which support is not documented (e.g. a function which the numpy docs say requires a float or int input might also 'work' if given a bool or complex input).

Author: These are all very good points. I took your suggestions and tweaked them slightly and included them. Do you perhaps have a good example for the second point?

Reviewer 2: Hi, with regards to the second point, maybe something like `np.corrcoef` - which either returns a scalar or an array depending on the inputs - is a reasonable example.  

I guess it's not much different to your example of dispatching based on input dtype; it's just a relatively common motivator for writing multiple implementations and avoiding type unification problems in so doing.

Author: That's useful, thanks!

* When writing tests for exceptions, for example, when adding tests to
  ``numba/tests/test_np_functions.py`` you may encounter the following error
  message:

  .. code:: pycon

        ======================================================================
        FAIL: test_foo (numba.tests.test_np_functions.TestNPFunctions)
        ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Traceback (most recent call last):
        File "/Users/vhaenel/git/numba/numba/tests/support.py", line 645, in tearDown
            self.memory_leak_teardown()
        File "/Users/vhaenel/git/numba/numba/tests/support.py", line 619, in memory_leak_teardown
            self.assert_no_memory_leak()
        File "/Users/vhaenel/git/numba/numba/tests/support.py", line 628, in assert_no_memory_leak
            self.assertEqual(total_alloc, total_free)
        AssertionError: 36 != 35

  This is caused because some exceptions leak references. Ideally, you will
  place all exception testing in a separate test method and then add a call to

>   ``self.disable_leak_check()`` to disable the leak-check.

Reviewer 2: True - maybe also mention that your test class will need to inherit the relevant mixin to allow you to call and use disable_leak_check.

Author: This was mentioned above, do you think I should repeat myself here?

Author: So, the mention is earlier in the document, I added a reminder here.

* For many of the functions that are available in NumPy, there are
  corresponding methods defined on the NumPy array type. For example, the
  function ``repeat`` is available in two flavours.

  .. code:: python

        import numpy as np
        a = np.arange(10)
        # function
        np.repeat(a, 10)
        # method
        a.repeat(10)

  Once you have written the function implementation, you can easily use
  ``overload_method`` and reuse it, for example for the ``repeat`` function/method.
  Just be sure to check that NumPy doesn't diverge in the implementations of

>   it's function/method.

Reviewer 2: its

  such a value is encountered, an appropriate ``ValueError`` should be raised.
* If a tuple is used instead of an array, a custom error message with a hint
  for the user should be issued.

The resulting implementation could look as follows:

.. literalinclude:: myjitmodule2.py

As you can see, the typing checking code has been increased significantly to
match the new requirements. Also, multiple implementations---one for integers
and one for floating-point---are provided. We check inside the typing scope
which implementation should be used and also raise any custom error messages
required. Importantly, the check for ``nan`` values is only present in the
floating point implementation as this additional check creates a runtime
overhead. This can easily be observed during profiling:

.. code:: pycon

    In [1]: a = np.arange(100, dtype=np.float64)

    In [2]: %timeit myalgorithm(a, 1.0)
    473 ns ± 11.9 ns per loop (mean ± std. dev. of 7 runs, 1000000 loops each)

    In [3]: a = np.arange(100)

    In [4]: %timeit myalgorithm(a, 1)
    237 ns ± 4.59 ns per loop (mean ± std. dev. of 7 runs, 1000000 loops each)

> Writing Tests

Author: indeed, is there anything you can think of to make the transition smoother.

* Empty array
* Single value array
* Multidimensional arrays
* Tests for ``int32`` and ``float32`` types

You can download the example code from above including tests here:

* :download:`mymodule.py </extending/mymodule.py>`
* :download:`myjitmodule.py </extending/myjitmodule.py>`
* :download:`myjitmodule2.py </extending/myjitmodule2.py>`
* :download:`test_myjitmodule2.py </extending/test_myjitmodule2.py>`

Implementing ``overload`` for NumPy functions
=============================================

Numba has strong support for NumPy because it provides ``jit`` compatible
re-implementations of NumPy functions. In such cases ``overload`` is a very
convenient option, however there are a few additional things to watch out for.

* The Numba implementation should match the NumPy implementation as closely as
  feasible with respect to accepted types, arguments, raised exceptions and
  runtime (Big-O / Landau order).

* When implementing supported argument types, bear in mind that---thanks to
  duck typing---NumPy does tend to accept a multitude of argument types beyond
  NumPy arrays such as scalar, list, tuple, set, iterator, generator etc.. So

>   you will need to account for that during type inference and subsequently as

Reviewer: this is the first mention of `type inference`, perhaps as part of the introduction to overload a reminder that each function must first be typed and then the impl lowered is something to consider?

Reviewer: Needs addressing.

  part of the tests.

* A NumPy function may return a scalar, array or a data structure

>   which matches one of its inputs - so you need to watch out for type

Reviewer: link to http://numba.pydata.org/numba-doc/latest/user/troubleshoot.html#my-code-has-a-type-unification-problem ?

Reviewer: Needs addressing.

  unification problems and dispatch to appropriate implementations. For

>   example, ``np.corrcoef`` may return an array or a scalar depending on it's

Reviewer: perhaps link to numpy `np.corrcoef` docs on scipy.org

Reviewer: Needs addressing.

  inputs.

* If you are implementing a new function, you should always update the
  `documentation
  <http://numba.pydata.org/numba-doc/latest/reference/numpysupported.html>`_.
  The sources can be found in `docs/source/reference/numpysupported.rst``. Be
  sure to mention any limitations that your implementation has, e.g. no support
  for the ``axis`` keyword.

* When writing tests for the functionality itself, it's useful to include
  handling of non-finite values; arrays with different shapes and layouts;
  complex inputs; scalar inputs; inputs with types for which support is not
  documented (e.g. a function which the NumPy docs say requires a float or int
  input might also 'work' if given a bool or complex input).

> * When writing tests for exceptions, for example, when adding tests to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When writing tests for exceptions, for example if adding tests to
```

>   ``numba/tests/test_np_functions.py`` you may encounter the following error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ``numba/tests/test_np_functions.py``, you may encounter the following error
```

  message:

  .. code:: pycon

        ======================================================================
        FAIL: test_foo (numba.tests.test_np_functions.TestNPFunctions)
        ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Traceback (most recent call last):

>         File "/Users/vhaenel/git/numba/numba/tests/support.py", line 645, in tearDown

Reviewer: remove user paths

Reviewer: Needs addressing

            self.memory_leak_teardown()
        File "/Users/vhaenel/git/numba/numba/tests/support.py", line 619, in memory_leak_teardown
            self.assert_no_memory_leak()
        File "/Users/vhaenel/git/numba/numba/tests/support.py", line 628, in assert_no_memory_leak
            self.assertEqual(total_alloc, total_free)
        AssertionError: 36 != 35

>   This is caused because some exceptions leak references. Ideally, you will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This occurs because raising exceptions from jitted code leads to reference leaks. Ideally, you will
```

>   place all exception testing in a separate test method and then add a call to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  place all exception testing in a separate test method and then add a call in each test to
```

  ``self.disable_leak_check()`` to disable the leak-check. (Remember to inherit
  from ``numba.tests.support.TestCase`` to make that available).

* For many of the functions that are available in NumPy, there are
  corresponding methods defined on the NumPy array type. For example, the
  function ``repeat`` is available in two flavours.

  .. code:: python

        import numpy as np
        a = np.arange(10)
        # function
        np.repeat(a, 10)
        # method
        a.repeat(10)

  Once you have written the function implementation, you can easily use

>   ``overload_method`` and reuse it, for example for the ``repeat`` function/method.

Reviewer: End the sentence on the comma and move the `For example...` to just above the code block, think it makes it read better?

  Just be sure to check that NumPy doesn't diverge in the implementations of
  its function/method.

  .. code:: python

        @extending.overload_method(types.Array, 'repeat')
        def array_repeat(a, repeats):
            def array_repeat_impl(a, repeat):
                # np.repeat has already been overloaded
                return np.repeat(a, repeat)

            return array_repeat_impl

* If you need to create ancillary functions, for example to re-use a small
  utility function or to split your implementation across functions for the
  sake of readability, you can make use of the ``register_jitable`` decorator.

>   This will make those functions available from within your ``jit`` decorated

Reviewer: (and also @overload decorated)

  functions.

* The Numba continuous integration (CI) setup  tests a wide variety of NumPy
  versions---you'll sometimes be alerted to a change in behaviour back in some
  previous NumPy version. If you can find supporting evidence in the NumPy
  change log / repo, then you'll need to decide whether to branch logic and
  attempt to replicate the logic across versions, or use a version gate (with
  associated wording in the docs) to advertise that Numba replicates NumPy from

>   v1.11 onwards, for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
some particular version onwards.
```

> * You can look at the Numba source code for inspiration, much of the overloaded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can look at the Numba source code for inspiration, many of the overloaded
```

  NumPy functions and methods are in ``numba/targets/arrayobj.py``. Good
  implementations to look at are:

>   * ``np.repeat``

Reviewer: May want to expand on this, and say in particular why they are good.

    In [4]: %timeit myalgorithm(a, 1)
    237 ns ± 4.59 ns per loop (mean ± std. dev. of 7 runs, 1000000 loops each)

Writing Tests
=============

The following is a sufficient piece of test code for the overloaded
``set_to_x`` implementation. As you can see, only a small part of the test-code
is about testing if the function works correctly. Most of the test code in this
example checks that all error cases are handled and that all raised exceptions
are of the correct type and have the correct error message. When implementing
tests cases for Numba, you should always use ``numba.tests.support.TestCase``.

.. literalinclude:: test_myjitmodule2.py

While it is a pretty decent test, it wouldn't be accepted into Numba.
There are a few more test-cases that should be implemented:

* Empty array
* Single value array
* Multidimensional arrays
* Tests for ``int32`` and ``float32`` types

You can download the example code from above including tests here:

* :download:`mymodule.py </extending/mymodule.py>`
* :download:`myjitmodule.py </extending/myjitmodule.py>`
* :download:`myjitmodule2.py </extending/myjitmodule2.py>`
* :download:`test_myjitmodule2.py </extending/test_myjitmodule2.py>`

> Implementing ``@overload``s for NumPy functions

Reviewer: This is causing a sphinx warning, ` WARNING: Inline literal start-string without end-string.`

Author: Yes, fixed, re-running CI now.
